
Havre Dulac Grace is the name on his credentials.

He never liked his name, what was his parents thinking. He worked as a track and capture agent for the Taropian Enforcement Agency. Everyone just called it TEA. All of the agents had been law enforcement detectives, back when law and order was necessary. Nowadays all things were connected, literally. Once the teat, a binding life force entity thing, was manifested by the Mysterians, humanity and planet Earth changed forever. He was never sure he understood what teat was or how it worked, but it did. Precognition was as easy as breathing. You even knew what your cat was thinking.

Before the teat was released the Mysterians had been diviners and tarot readers. But somehow morphed over time, attaining true enlightenment, and discovering the teat. Once the teat got out, there was no putting the genie back in the bottle. Not easily. It bound everything and all life forms into a single collective of one easy access mind. Everything was plug and play now, with no privacy, no lying, and nothing on the down low. This change put law enforcement, justice, government, and the military out of business. The internet as well as broadcast radio and TV disappeared. All of those things were no longer needed. A sort of utopia was created and everything happened in your mind because of the teat force.

Majors But as with all groups of people over the ages a split had formed. Factions broke off from the Mysterians. There now existed the Inners, Traders, Colabs, and Casters. None of them were as powerful as the Mysterians. These new groups pretended to be unaffected by the teat. But the teat connected all, whether you believe it or not. They preferred the old ways of divining by using tarot cards, omens seen, voices heard, or the casting of lots. Their numbers were small as their ways were seen as useless, now as ridiculous as belief and faith. In time another faction formed calling itself the Dires.

As former Mysterians the Dires had thorough knowledge of how the teat force worked. And over time, as a group working in unison, had developed a method to manipulate the teat within certain individuals. Once the Dire targeted a person their future was altered ending in their death. They simply put false information into the target's mind. Dires could perform this in a covert way, mostly covering their actions from the collective. Evil, of a sort, had returned. This is where Havre and others like him at TEA came in.

The Mysterians had secretly created a process to remove the teat from a person. Along with a drug, a person could extend the time spent outside the influence of the teat. They became as people once were, and no longer aware of being connected to everything. Havre did not like the process, as it took days in quarantine. Totally alone, in the dark, no voices in your head, and that old feeling of not knowing. Uncertainty returned, as you were slowly disconnected and unplugged. But the process was required otherwise the Dires would simply target a TEA agent. Before the process had been perfected, many agents lost their lives by being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Dire consequences.

Zanshin On the teat, then off the teat, became the pattern of life for Havre. It was confusing and exhausting. Once off the teat, he and other agents reverted to using the skills they had mastered as former detectives. Handcuffs, interrogations, and all. Along with a device provided by the Mysterians that could detect false thoughts within the collective.

There was a limit to the number of times a person could be taken off the teat.

This was Havre's last time before the force that was the teat would resist the process. Winking in and out of different realities as he had done for many years, Havre was unsure about his future. A strange feeling in a world where your future was a certainty.
